so we are gonna start of this section on input and
output IO with Java with an introduction to
exceptions and the reason for that is
that many of methods that will be using to read and
write files actually required that
exceptions are handled now their is two main
approaches to dealing with errors when
programming and there are referred to
it as
LBYL and EAFP and that stands for
is look before you leap and easy to ask
for forgiveness than permission so in
Java it's more common to look before you
leap and we've seen this a lot we tested
an object is not null before we attempt
to use it for example the other approach
the EAFP easy to ask for forgiveness than
permission is to go ahead and perform the
operation then respond to an exception
if something goes wrong so trapping and
handling exceptions is pretty simple
the code that may cause a problem is wrapped
in a try block and then catches used to
deal with the exception now there is a
bit more to it than that things like
deciding which exceptions is a catch things
of that nature but let's start going
through a couple of examples to
demonstrate both approaches to deal with
errors and as a result of this show how
exception handling is used so I've created a
new project go ahead and make a start on
it and we're going to demonstrate both
approaches using functions to perform
integer divisions
so I've got my main method here and I need to write up methods first so this one
is going to be private..... so that's the look before you leap
scenario so.....
...we are testing to see
whether y is not equal to 0 before we
do any processing so....
...
..so that is look before you were leap we are actually
testing the conditions are valid because
of course you can't divide something by
zero you'll actually get an error if you do that
so we're testing to make sure that the
value that we're dividing by in this case
y isn't 0 before we actually did the
test so let's look before you leap now
the other way is to basically easy to
ask for forgiveness than permission so
we're actually going to just do it a
different way so...
.....
....same parameters but
in this case we use a try block so...
....
.....
...so now we have our two methods
we need to call them from main method so we just
put....
....
..so if we run both cases....
...you can see we got 0 as a result in both scenarios in
other words both functions can cope with
an attempt to divide by 0 the LBYL
method checks first as I mentioned this
is on line 13 return 0 if y is 0 whereas the EAFP method attempts the division and catches the
exception that is raised if dividing by 0 now if
we didn't make any attempt to cater for the
possible error the program would crash
and we can see that by adding other
function so we put a third function which is...just
to confirm it does actually crash and we won't just
do any checking and we won't add a try
block in it so its returning x/y
and if we have
output so....so we should find that 3rd method called
call will actually crash and they're you go
we got it to crash arithmetic exception
divide by zero so there's a lot of
debate that is still going on about
which method is better but the simple
answer is that really they're both
better because each approach has got its own
advantages there are more suited to
certain situations now when using Java
it's more common to check first but
something is far easier to just try and
see now in that example there's very
little difference in the complexity of
the two methods and you can probably
have a good guess at what's
going on just by reading the code
now for a slightly less contrived
example let's have a go at getting a
number from a keyboard
what we've done is we've used a scanner quite a lots in this course but one thing we
haven't done yet is to make sure that
the values entered are actually valid
so this short program attempts to
read the value from the keyboard and store it in a
variable the first we'll try without
making any attempt to handle invalid
input at all so I'm going to close it down
and just comment these out for now....
instead I'm going to put.....
....
.....
...so if we run this...and its waiting for input
we didn't put message on the screen to ask what
we're asked what we were wanting to user to type but in this case we just enter a number
like 45 x is 45 so that works ok no
problems but if we change this and run
it and put in.....we get an exception input
mismatch exception you can see that the
showing at the top and the attempt to use x int on invalid input
results is the reason that we are getting that error and
that's because the program doesn't
handle the exception so to cope with
that you can read the input into a
string instead then check each character
in the string to make sure they are all digits before
attempting to parse the input into a
integer so we are gonna create a get int LBYL method and called that on line 13
instead so close that down and write this method so put...
....
.....
.....we are going to go through the entire
string that's being accepted from the
keyboard than on the next line we are going
to check to see whether its valid so...
...so is the digit at a specified position...position will
be...so
for each element in the string each
character we are just testing to make sure
it's actually a number if we find one
that isn't so we got the not
character.isdigit we are setting is valid to false and
we're breaking out of the loop and
if we got a valid answer if the answer was valid then we check that all the digits
were their we can return....we know
that is going to work its not going to
come up with an error because we've
determined they are all digits I'm going return it that
way and it wasn't valid its going to fall out of that condition we return 0
so now if we tested this work and will put....run that enter an integer
like
565 x is 565 that still works and of course other examples work as well
and changing this to Tim x is 0 so we are basically
going through and check to see that the
right digits throughout the entire
string that were retrieved from scanner
if there was one that wasn't as a digit
so its going to be an invalid number we
just returning 0 that's one
way of doing it but there's quite a bit
of code their to actually confirm that
that the input was invalid so quite a bit of code
to add so we can write using an exception handler
probably a lot less code so
I'm going to do something on those line so...
.....
....
so you could see that although we haven't run the
code yet their is a lot less code in the get int
EAFP method compared to the one in LBYL just to be clear
here with the try catch I think you've
probably got the hang of this now anyway
but when we do a try if the isn't an error
the code that is in between the try block
at least try block this code any code that is in
that block is executed if it's
successful so it will continue executing
process many lines of code if you
wanted to their but so long as it's
there's no exception that's raise the code is
going to continue processing and it will
bypass the catch and fa;ll through to the
next line but if there is an error exception
is raised processing stops immediately
and goes to whatever the code is in
the catch block so in this case its going to
return 0 so let's just run that and
confirmed that it does work so if we run that same deal enter number that
still valid and invalid number Fred x is 0 so
you can see that there are scenarios
depending on what you're trying to
achieve where it can be more efficient I think
well certainly if you count that their is less code in the get int EAFP
method compared to the get int LBYL I
think its little bit more elegant as well
because you can look at that very
quickly once you understand what
exceptions are and know strait away ok I can input mismatch exception we're trying to prevent
that error from being captured and it is
returning 0 if there's a problem so does
really depends on what you're trying to
do because its not always black and white to
always use the EAFP approach or always use the
LBYL approach it does depend on what
you're trying to achieve so
contrasting the fact that this EAFP the
get int EAFP wa a lot more efficient compared to the get int
LBYL the reverse can be sometimes be true as well I
for example probably wouldn't make
sense to use a try catch block when
checking that a key
exist in a map for example and in that scenario
it's probably a lot quicker to use the
alternative method
which is the LBYL approach you
could obviously use it with exceptions
but checking for the existence of a key
first or using the map.get method is what I'm
getting at and checking the value returns is a null before
attempting to use it is going to result
in more readable code so in other words
its less code so it really does depend on
what you're trying to achieve and the
actual solution as to which approach you
actually use alright I'm gonna finish this video here now in the
next video we're going to continue on and
we are going to start looking at some other types
of exceptions and actually clarify
exactly what an exception is and talk
about runtime exceptions and general
exceptions and the likes so as always see you
in the next video